---
layout: post
title: Update
description: More background
comments: false
tags: [background]
---

The first post here described the objective, but not the circumstances of the work here and the medium in which it will appear. It consists of readings, recordings, statistics, studies started over the last few months of the global pandemic, and which will continue over the course of the writing here--no doubt as the pandemic continues.

Its name or title is taken from a simple soil ecology diagram (visible in the [About page](https://subsurface.space/about)). The associations of the name for us, at the moment, extend along the planning work on watersheds we undertook a few years ago in the Pacific Northwest. This took place as indications emerged that the earth's climate system began to be headed more and more towards a runaway climate change scenario; and, somewhat oddly, as new findings from drilling in the seafloor, in mines, and in other locations suggested [an entire biosphere](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/19/science/subsurface-microbes.html) of microbes existed in high temperature and high pressure environments beneath the earth's surface.

All data presented will be shared according to open data principles. All references will be documented as clearly as possible. Currently the publishing medium is a Jekyll markdown site, to facilitate the easy integration of code, graphs, maps alongside writing, references, and images, but this is only to begin, and we'll pursue other publishing possibilities. The aim, as this work evolves, is a production that will survive and be shared, in some way, over the next decades.
